# Data-Scientist-Salaries-Prediction

According to the US Bureau of Labor Statistics, demand for jobs in data science is at an all time high. In the next decade, the number of data science jobs is projected to increase by nearly 12 million. Data science is more in demand than ever, and for good reason; data scientists work at the intersections of mathematics, technology, business, and countless other fields to provide insights and analysis. At the same time, the field of data science is continuously evolving, and the requirements of new data science jobs are changing constantly.

With this in mind, we set out to explore what optimal data science job applicants look like. First, we wanted to look at what factors are most important for determining an applicant’s future salary, whether these factors were related to type of company, an applicant’s skills and prior knowledge, or even the job description itself. A profession’s salary is on every future employee’s mind. Everyone that has, or will ever, hold a job wants to make as much money as they can. Therefore, modeling which variables are most important to a high-paying job can help future employees determine which jobs they should apply to.

For our second question, we looked more specifically at which skills a person should learn in order to maximize their average salary as well as the amount of jobs that are available to individuals with certain skills. Knowing which skills are most important for particular jobs is beneficial to anyone as it allows them to maximize the benefits they can receive for the effort that it requires to become proficient in a skill. The goal from this exploration will be to allow each person to get a glimpse into what type of specialization will allow them to maximize their salary potential as well as ability to get a job that they find rewarding.
